---
title: Voices of Change; In-Class Extended Response
description: A school essay about creating a persuasive speech.
created: 2025-04-02
published: 2025-05-28T21:12:00
---
This file is under [[LICENSE]].

# Voices of Change
- You will write a persuasive speech responding to the following statement: 
> "Artificial intelligence" will create more problems than it solves.
- You must take a clear stance and use persuasive techniques to strengthen your argument.
- You will be provided with a list of facts and statistics. You must evaluate the evidence and choose the most reliable information to support your argument. You may also create your own facts and statistics, as long as they are realistic and support your argument effectively.

---
## Response
How can we really trust the AI we so heavily rely on in our everyday world? To answer your question: we simply can't. We see artificial intelligence almost everywhere in our everyday lives from our phone's virtual assistant (such as Siri and Gemini) to self-driving cars, yet we never question the profound harm of relying on such a large database of information. Today, it is my intention to inform you that artificial intelligence is not only a significant threat to our society, but is also the cause to many notable issues such as enabling fraud and outrightly harmful misinformation through deepfake technology, stripping away the jobs of millions of people, and invading the privacy of our society. Lend me your ears so I can inform you of how dangerous, vile, and wicked artificial intelligence can be, and how it will be the cause of the problems that will destroy our society.

Let's start with a clear and honest fact. Artificial intelligence is a powerful tool in the hands of many. Can you imagine the amount of criminals, fraudsters, and fake news reporters using artificial intelligence to cause harm to millions of people on the internet? Unfortunate, it has already become our reality. Cybercriminals have already used artificial intelligence to commit crimes such as a fraud and has caused significant harm to millions of people. A DeepTrace report demonstrates this by stating that 96% of deepfake videos from 2019-2022 were used to commit fraud or spread misinformation. Are you able to imagine the millions of lives who fell victim to lies and fraud? This is a problem caused by artificial intelligence that should be addressed right now, not 5 years or 10 years from now.

We've all watched science fiction and dystopian movies in our free time. As a science and dystopian fiction fan, it horrifies me to see fiction come to life. Hundreds of millions of people fear losing their job, their main source of income to artificial intelligence. How cruel is that? We should not let a program cause significant damage to our economics and the flow of our society, and ruin the millions of lives at stake. According to a study from McKinsey Global Institute, 375 million jobs (which is 14% of the global workforce) are expected to be replaced by AI by 2030. An agonising 375 million jobs would disappear, making millions of people unemployed with nowhere to go to. Let's not make fiction a reality and save millions of people from the impending doom of losing their jobs.

And how do we know what artificial intelligence really knows? How do we know that tool that we rely on isn't watching our every move? As a privacy enthusiast, it scares me on how much information artificial intelligence really knows, and the possibilities of how it can be misused and caused a significant issue to people's privacy. Artificial intelligence poses a great threat to society's privacy and unethically collects information that does not need to be collected in the first place. A study from the IHS Markit states that over 1 billion surveillance cameras worldwide use AI technology (such as facial recognition) to collect information about people. Imagine knowing that you were being surveilled without your consent and having data collected from you without knowing what it would be used for. It would be a nightmare for millions of people who would be concerned about their privacy, knowing their privacy was invaded with the help of artificial intelligence. Artificial intelligence has been the cause of nightmares for millions of people, and it is our duty to make it right.

To continue our reliance on artificial intelligence is to be ignorant of the problems it causes. To allow artificial intelligence to be a tool for criminals and fraudsters alike is to risk millions of lives. To strip away 375 million jobs and invade the privacy of millions of people with artificial intelligence, is to pose a threat to our society for not only the present but also the future. To those who are making endeavours in stopping the cause of all of these detrimental problems, I applaud you for your efforts. but we cannot sit still and allow AI to be what causes the problem that will end humanity. As Emma Watson once stated, "if not us, who? If not now, when?"